---
title: "Death"
date: "(Friday, February 28th 2020)"
---

If life is a great mystery, its end, death, turns out to be another great mystery. But more than death itself, whose definition as "Cessation or end of life" (DRAE) is clear, what is mysterious and that generates many unanswered questions is: What happens after death?For some nothing happens, death is the end of everything, beyond the decomposition of the body there is nothing at all. For others it is nothing more than a transition in the endless cycle of reincarnations and deaths in which we are immersed, which will culminate once we reach the level of consciousness or spiritual that allows us to return to our origin and for others it is time to wait to be resurrected and judged so that God defines our destiny, either with eternal rest in paradise, with eternal death in hell or purging our sins to finally be able to access the Kingdom of God.

In the past, people who stopped breathing and whose heart stopped were declared dead, but doctors observed that some people in that state came back to life after being subjected to resuscitation methods, so it was evident that these symptoms did not they were enough to declare a person dead.

Subsequently, the so-called clinical death is determined by ceasing brain function, which, according to some studies, occurs about 5 minutes after the neurons have stopped receiving the oxygen they need to function, a period during which they consume the reserves that still they remain, after which they eventually die, although it cannot yet be precisely determined how long it takes for the last neurons to die. In addition, it seems that this diagnosis is not sufficient in all cases, given that patients declared clinically dead have returned to life without a clear explanation. Some skeptics argue that these people were not "really dead", so it remains to be determined: when can a person be declared truly dead ? And what would be the infallible protocol to be able to do it.

Some doctors have taken on the task of studying the cases of people with near-death episodes (NDEs) and have found some similarities in those cases, such as: Listening to the conversations of the people around them; feel calm, pleasure and happiness during that state; perceive a bright light and / or a mystical figure; see yourself separated from your body; see significant moments in your life or meet loved ones who have passed away. These episodes seem to indicate that the consciousness or the soul for some, manages to exist after physical death.However it is not yet clear if this occurs before, during or after the person actually dies. What these events make clear is that death does not occur instantaneously, but is a process that takes time to develop and during which the person may be aware of his own death.

Some doctors have taken on the task of studying the cases of people with near-death episodes (NDEs) and have found some similarities in those cases, such as: Listening to the conversations of the people around them; feel calm, pleasure and happiness during that state; perceive a bright light and / or a mystical figure; see yourself separated from your body; see significant moments in your life or meet loved ones who have passed away. These episodes seem to indicate that the consciousness or the soul for some, manages to exist after physical death.However it is not yet clear if this occurs before, during or after the person actually dies. What these events make clear is that death does not occur instantaneously, but is a process that takes time to develop and during which the person may be aware of his own death.

Fortunately, many scientists, even exposing themselves to criticism and even ridicule from their colleagues, have taken a step forward in the use of their knowledge in the search for these truths. In the specific case of life after death, some have dedicated efforts to discovering what lies behind the near-death episodes (NDEs) and past life memories that many people say they remember and some dare to assert that there is indeed evidence that something transcends physical death and that further study should be carried out in this regard.

On the other hand, some theorists in quantum physics have put forward theories that open the door to the possibility of life after death. One of these possibilities is the simultaneous existence of multiple universes or parallel universes, in which death in one of them would not prevent the possibility of continuing to live in another of those universes.  Another approach based on quantum physics is that death is nothing more than an illusion, since the reality we perceive depends on the observer, in this case, on ourselves. We are so convinced that death is inevitable, that our consciousness has no choice but to make that thought a reality.

Another quantum option is the existence of the Akashic records, in which all the knowledge of humanity is stored, including ours, and that our consciences are access doors to those records, so all our information would not be lost at the moment of death, but would be stored in those records. The modern version of Akashic records would be the "cloud" of the internet, in which we can store all our information and access it when we need it.  

From my point of view we must not rule out the possibility that there is life after death, given the evidence that we have today in this regard and the advances that are made in various branches of science that can shed light on the solution of this mystery. . 