---
title: "What is Reiki?"
date: "(Saturday, January 18th 2020)"
---

The word Reiki is a Japanese word that refers to "universal energy", to that force from which life arises. Living bodies, human, animal, or plant, radiate heat and energy. This energy is the life force and has been named by as many names as human civilizations have existed. The Japanese called it KI and this is the root that appears in the word Reiki. REI means Universal and refers to the cosmic energetic essence, which interpenetrates all things.
 
Reiki is a process of meeting the Universal Energy with the physical energy of each individual. It occurs when the person is subjected to a process of tuning into it, carried out by a trained teacher.
##What is the essence of Reiki?
 
The essence of Reiki is love, that divine vibration that emits joy, peace and life and that encompasses everything. Reiki opens you to love, the healing energy par excellence, and leads you to it.
Reiki has been defined as an energy similar to radio waves, being able to be applied effectively, in direct contact or at a distance. It is a harmless energy, without side effects, it is practical, safe, efficient and compatible with any other type of therapy.
 
It is also defined as Light-energy, which penetrates the organism through the seven main chakras, located from the base of the spine to the top of the head, and which distribute it to the entire organism, rebalancing it.
In a Reiki session, the Reiki practitioner lays his hands on the body of the recipient (who does not have to take off his clothes) and lets it flow. The amount of energy received by the patient is determined by the patient himself, the Reikian therapist limits himself to directing the energy acting as an intermediary between the patient and the provider - the Cosmos - who delivers it in an unlimited way.
 
##How does a person become a Reiki transmitter?
 
When you lay your hands on love, you are already transmitting Reiki. Love is the healing energy. However, a Reiki master can help you with an initiation to consciously channel that energy. He will prepare your physical and etheric body to turn it into an energy channel with the technique inherited from Master Usui and his descendants.
Do you have to have a special "gift" to practice Reiki?
 
The Universal Energy is within everyone's reach, we can all be a Reiki channel, regardless of age, sex, ideology ... It is simple and wonderful! As simple as it is surprising. There is no limit, after initiation we only have to put our hands for self-healing or that of others and, simply, the energy flows. Since the energy used is not that of the practitioner, but the Life Energy of the Universe, practicing Reiki does not wear down but rather revitalizes the practitioner.
 
##What does Reiki initiation consist of?
 
A Reiki initiation is a process that opens the Crown, Heart and Palms CHAKRAS and connects them to the Reiki Source of Energy.
It is taught to feel, channel and transmit energy through the laying on of hands, thus acting as an energy channel.
The Tuning Energy opens your systems and makes some changes to the Chakras, Aura and also the Physical Body in an energetic way to channel Reiki. These changes are only understandable to our heart and soul, and will help us balance and unlock our energy centers (Chakras), allowing better flow.
By receiving an Initiation you become part of a group of people who are using Reiki "to heal themselves and others" and who can also work together to heal Mother Earth.
 
##What does Reiki give us?
 
Lack of health is not only shown in our physical level (diseases); it is also reflected on the emotional, mental and spiritual level.
Reiki relieves physical pain but considers the person globally in the physical, emotional, mental and spiritual bodies, so that it is not only aimed at suppressing pathology, but also to recover the natural state of balance that produces well-being and happiness. This is essentially important in order to achieve a change in your interior and in your immediate environment. Life tests us every day and Reiki helps us face it with more balance.
 
 
 


